This Readme documents the OS/8 side of the console serial disk project.

The idea percolated for a couple of years before I decided it could
be made to work.  The server side has several modes of operation.  The
mode that it sits in most of the time is console mode where it accepts
characters from the keyboard, converts lower to upper case and then
ors in 0200 to set the MSB as the PDP-8 would expect from a teletype.
These characters are sent to the PDP-8 over the console serial port.
It also listens to the serial port coming from the PDP-8 and displays
the characters it receives on the screen as if it were a teletype.
The mode changes to server mode when it receives a 020 through 027
control code.  This wakeup code tells the server to stop sending
keyboard codes and to listen for the next three characters which will
give it enough info to perform as a disk handler.  As mentioned the
handler sends 020 through 027 where the 0 through 7 tells the server
the memory field where the request originated.  The next two bytes
are the address in memory that was called by the user.  The server
uses this information to determine what device it is responding as.
The third byte is the character found in the keyboard input buffer.
A call to the SYS handler always goes to 07607 and the entry point
of the handler looks like this:

	*7607
SYS,    VER		/ENTRY POINT WITH INITIAL VERSION NUMBER
        JMS SETUP	/VALUE AT SETUP IS SENT TO SERVER.

SETUP,  .-.		/THE ADDRESS PLUS 2 THAT WAS CALLED

All entry points will do a JMS SETUP.  In the case of a system
handler this will send a 7611 to the server.  If the call is from
another entry point that is co-resident with the system handler it
will come from some other address in the last page of field 0.  If
the call is from a non-sys handler then it will come from a known
address but not from the last page in field 0.  The entry point
must match something it knows about.  If it doesn't match then there
could be a mismatch between handler and server or it could be a user
program happened to send a wakeup code.  If that is the case then
we could simply display those characters and go back into console
mode.  There is also a Boot mode.  The operator will hand toggle in
the help loader and start it running.  The server can then be instructed
to go into boot mode by pressing SHIFT F12 or by starting it with the -B
option on the command line.  The server sends the help loader code and
then sends the boot block on the system device.  The boot loader will
move the pieces of the boot block to their appropriate locations and
when done JMP to 07605 to initiate OS/8.

CONNON.PA
	This is the CONsole NON system handler for the console serial
	disk service.  This initial version supports up to four max
	size OS/8 disk images (CSD0: through CSD3:), one RK05 simh style
	image consisting of two devices RKA: and RKB: and one DECtape
	image on DTA:  Build refuses to INSTALL when they are named
	RKA0:, RKB0:, and DTA0:

CONSYS.PA
	This is the CONsole SYStem handler.  It is a typical handler
	with the addition of status checks of the TSF and KSF flags
	upon entry so they can be put back before exit.  This is what
	was installed with BUILD as the system handler on the csd0.img
	disk image.  The handler names are SYS:, CSD0: and CSD1:.

PCHSYS.PA
	This is a special patch version of the SYS handler that was
	used to bootstrap an operating system using a simh RK05 image
	or a serial disk boot image.  An early version of the server
	would patch this handler onto the boot image.  This handler
	pretends to be an RK05 handler.  And while it works, you can't
	mix this and a real RK05 on the same system.

OS8bt.pal
	This is the version of the hand toggled BOOT1 help loader and
	the BOOT2 code that is used to generate the help code the server
	will send to BOOT1.

hlpgen.c
	This program takes the output of a palbart listing and generates
	the help codes BOOT1 needs in order to load correct code into
	memory.

btcd.txt
	This is a massaged version of the boot loader that is found on
	the boot block.  It is used by the server to validate the system
	image.  And initially to be installed by the server on an RK05
	sysgem image for that critical first boot.

bthand.txt
	This is a massaged version of the handler listing.  It is used
	by the server to validate the system image.  And initially to
	be installed by the server on an RK05 image for that critical
	first boot.

btgen.c
	takes a palbart listing and converts it to a form appropriate to
	compiling into a C program.  Used to generate the handler code
	that in included in the server.

