The RS-232 cable between the server and the PDP-8 will depend on a lot of
factors.  It is beyond the scope of this document to cover every case
because while a standard for RS-232 existed at the time these machines
were built, the standards were not strictly followed.

What the EIA standards call for is basically that every device which is
not a modem should follow the DTE conventions and have a male connector.
It is standard conformant to provide some other connector, even a female
EIA connector, as long as a cable is also provided which terminates in
the conformant male DTE connector.

This means that, to be fully conformant, we should provide male DTE
connections to all gear, and use female-female null modems to connect
our devices together.

In general, we might decide to reduce the gear and connections required
by providing female DCE connections. We do feel however, that it is
important that male connectors adhere to DTE standards, and female
connectors adhere to DCE standards. Otherwise, there is no guarantee
that things that plug together actually work together, nor is there
an obvious path to make them do so.

Therefore, in this document, male connectors are DTE, and female
connectors are DCE, whether DB-25 or DE-9.


Server serial ports:

The server will most likely have a male DE-9 connector.  This connector
was probably first used for RS-232 on the IBM PC/AT.  The male DE-9 is
found on the typical USB to RS-232 converters.  It is also the most common
connector found on desktop and laptop serial interfaces.

The pinout for the male DE-9 connector is:

1) DCD Data Carrier Detect (In)
2) RXD Receive Data        (In)  *
3) TXD Transmit Data       (Out) *
4) DTR Data Terminal Ready (Out)
5) GND Ground                    *
6) DSR Data Set Ready      (In)
7) RTS Request to Send     (Out)
8) CTS Clear to Send       (In)
9) RI  Ring Indicator      (In)

For the server to function only three of these absolutely need to be
connected. The Ground (pin 5), Receive Data (pin 2), and Transmit Data
(pin 3).  All the others are configured to be ignored by the software.
This has not been exhaustively tested so if you are having problems you
might need to trick it by connecting pin 4 to pins 1, 6, and 8. This will
force DCD, DSR, and CTS to their operating states.

The other common connector is the male DB-25 connector.  This connector
was commonly found on the Data Terminal Equipment (DTE) side of the
connection.  In the listing below we only include the signals that are
also found on the DE-9.

The pinout for the male DB-25 connector is:

2)  RXD Receive Data        (In)  *
3)  TXD Transmit Data       (Out) *
4)  RTS Request to Send     (Out)
5)  CTS Clear to Send       (In)
6)  DSR Data Set Ready      (In)
7)  GND Signal Ground             *
8)  DCD Data Carrier Detect (In)
20) DTR Data Terminal Ready (Out)

There are signals defined for all the other pins but they were not used
by the PDP-8 for asynchronous communications.


Straight 8

The original PDP-8 came equipped with a 20 ma current loop interface
connected to a Teletype model 33 or model 35 at a staggeringly slow
110 baud.  Doug built a couple of cards for his Straight 8 that gave 8N1
operation at speeds up to 38400.  It is not reliable at speeds greater
than 9600 baud and the parts used are no longer available so what he
did will not help with this.  We don't know of anyone else who has an
upgraded console port on their Straight 8.  Doug will at some point
work on my own console to attain much higher speeds than the current
9600 baud and will make that info available.  If you need a jumpstart
Doug has replaced MF30 the Teletype connector card (W070) with his own card
consisting of a baud rate generator and the RS-232 level shifters.  A
ribbon cable connects this card to a paddle card in slot MF20 which
originally was an R450 that controlled the baud rate for the console.  He
used a windowed Microchip PIC processor running at 20 MHZ as the baud
rate generator.  To go faster than 38400 would have required clocking the
PIC at a magic frequency.  It is perhaps somewhat a misuse of the
PIC since there are more transistors in the PIC than in the entire rest
of the Straight 8.

Note: The R450 is found in slot ME15 on the earlier machines.


LINC-8

The LINC-8 can be thought of as a Straight 8 with the addition of a LINC
or a LINC with the addition of a Straight 8.  In either case for our
purposes the comments for the Straight 8 above apply except for perhaps
the slot numbers.


8/s

The 8/s does not have a built in console port.  The console interface
was a Negibus device (option PT08) that was housed in the base of the
Teletype.  The Rhode Island Computer Museum's 8/s has been equipped
with RS-232 but no documentation of this conversion has been found and
the person who built it is no longer with us to ask.  The PT08 is
logically similar to the TTY interface found in the Straight 8.  It is
implemented with the bulk of the logic on the W706 and W707 cards.  The
The W070 could be replaced to drive RS-232 instead of current loop.  It
is probably possible to tune the R401 clock cards to give a faster baud
rate.  



8/I, 8/L and PDP-12

These machines all came equipped to talk to 20 ma current loop Teletypes
at 110 baud.  My suggestion is to locate the W076 card and replace it
with an M850.  The W076 is the current loop driver and I have been told
that the M850 is an interface compatible card that drives RS232.  That
would get you the RS-232 part. It should then be possible to replace
the M452 baud rate oscillator with a faster (M405) oscillator card.

Vince has designed boards to replace the W076 and M452. The W076 replacement
a 40 pin Berg connector that interfaces to the BC01V cable which is the one
used by the Omnibus serial boards.  This means the cabling described below
for those models would apply. The M452 replacement has a header onto which
a shorting block is applied to select baud rates from 110 to 115,200. (The
card will also do 230.4K, but the other cards can't.)

Be advised that these machines typically require two stop bits, not just
ne. The source code for the server has a #define for that.


8/E, 8/F, 8/M and 8/A

The E, F, and M would normally have an M865, M8650 or M8655 Serial
interface card for their console.  The 8/A could also use one of those
boards but was more often equipped with the M8316 option 2 board.

The M865 card was set up to drive a 20 ma current loop to a Teletype.
This makes it difficult to use with Console Serial Disk as you will need
to modify the baud rate and have it drive RS-232 levels instead of the
current loop.

The M8650 card by default can drive a 20 ma current loop or RS-232 at
speeds of up to 2400 baud.  This card does not use a UART and if the
baud rate clock is modified it can run at speeds as fast as 230.4k baud.
And while it could be used with CSD at 2400 baud this will get old very
quickly.  If you are handy with a soldering iron you might consider
doing the modifications.  Instructions can be found on the web.

The M8655 card can drive a 20 ma current loop or RS-232 at speeds up to
19200 baud.  Not all cards can do 19200 baud as some of the UARTs used
were not able to operate at that speed.  An M8655 operating at 9600 baud
will perform an OS/8 directory command in about 20 seconds.  At 19200
this will take about 10 seconds.

The M8316 board is a hex width card and will only fit in the 8/a.  It
includes a UART based console interface with a Berg connector that
connects to a BC01V cable.  It can operate at speeds up to 9600 baud.
There is a DIP switch to select the baud rate and 19200 is one of the
selections but the documentation indicates this does not work.  I expect
that this is a limitation of the UART.

You probably have one of these cards in your machine.  The M8655 is the
easiest to get working because it is already capable of RS-232 at usable
baud rates.  A modified M8650 would be the best because it can operate
at much higher baud rates.  The M865 is not all that useful as it would
be considerable work to modify.  The M8316 is even easier to setup than
the M8655 because everything is selected with DIP switches.

There are also some non DEC Omnibus boards that can be used as a console
produced by individuals.  However, a quick web search did not turn up
anything relevant.  I will add this info when I can.  Perhaps your
google fu is better than mine. TODO: Phil did a USB card, as did Alan
and Mal.

If you do not have a BC01V cable my suggestion is to make one that only
includes the GND, RXD, and TXD connections between the Berg and the
female DE-9.  The reason I suggest this is it will plug directly into
the USB converter on the server and requires no annoying adaptors.  There
will be just 3 wires to the DE-9 and the jumper between pins E and M on
the Berg side.


The BC01V cable:

The cable used with the M8650 and M8655 is a DEC BC01V which has a 40 pin
Berg connector on one end and a DB25 female connector on the other end.
This cable was intended to plug directly into a piece of DTE gear like
one of DEC's video terminals.  You will need a device to convert from the
DB-25 female to the DE-9 male found on the server.  At the time of this
writing you can easily find these on EBay and Amazon for under $10.

The pinout for the female DB25 is:

DB#     Signal Name         Dir   Berg
1)      Protective Ground         UU
2)  TXD Transmit Data       (Out) F
3)  RXD Receive Data        (In)  J
4)  RTS Request to Send     (Out) V
7)  GND Signal Ground             VV
8)  RSD                     (In)
20) DTR Data Terminal Ready (Out) DD

As mentioned above, this female connector should really have a DCE pinout,
but it does not. It is basically a DTE, with pins 2 and 3 swapped.
Fortunately, this didn't matter much in practice.  The most likely needed
component, then, is the DE-9 to DB-25 convertor with male on the 25 pin
side, and female on the 9 pin side.

A better alternative is to make a small cable stub to go from the serial
card to the exterior of your machine. This allows you to connect and
disconnect the machine without having to partially disassemble it, and
allows the use of standard, pre-made (inexpensive) cables.


Making your own cable

There is a 40 pin box header on the serial controller which the BC01 or
BC05 cable mates to. This mating is typically accomplished with the use
of a 44 pin housing, into which female crimp connectors are inserted
(after crimping them to conductors). The official pin-out of the header
is confusing, because a left-handed connector with alphabetic pin names
is used instead of the more conventional right-handed connector with
numeric pin numbers. Looking into the header, with the PCB at left, the
pin-out of the header is:

Solder    Component Signal
Side Pin  Side Pin  Name
--------  --------  ------
40  A               GND
          39  B     GND
38  C               GND
          37  D     
36  E               TTL-SERIAL-IN
          35  F     EIA-TXD
34  H               TTI-TTL
          33  J     EIA-RXD
32  K               TTI +
          31  L     External Timing
30  M               EIA-TTL-IN
          29  N     SCT
28  P               
          27  R     SCR
26  S               TTI -
          25  T     CTS Clear To Send
24  U               
          23  V     RTS Request To Send
22  W               
          21  X     RI Ring Indicator
20  Y               
          19  Z     DSR Data Set Ready
18  AA              TTO +
          17  BB    DCD Data Carrier Detect
16  CC               
          15  DD    DTR Data Terminal Ready
14  EE              Reader Run -
          13  FF    User Function/Self Test
12  HH               
          11  JJ    User Function
10  KK              TTO -
          9   LL     
8   MM               
          7   NN     
6   PP              Reader Run +
          5   RR     
4   SS               
          3   TT     
2   UU               GND
          1   VV     GND

This information is from the section of the 8/E maintenance manual for the
DP8-EA, which seems to use more of the header pins than the other serial
cards.

The extra pair of holes in each end of the housing serve to center the
housing when it is inserted in the box header, and are not otherwise used.

For use with a DE-9 connector, the EIA signals are the relevant ones.

Additionally on the Berg you need to connect pin E to pin M.  This ties
the TTL level EIA serial output to the input of the RS-232 driver.
was done to allow current loop to be selected instead.) For input,
current loop (TTI) or EIA signals are mapped to TTL logic levels on H
and M, with the expectation that one of these will be jumpered to E,
depending on whether a current loop or EIA input device is to be connected.
For output, both TTO current loop outputs and EIA outputs are driven.
For reader run, only current loop levels are driven.

A subset of the above signals is available with any given serial controller.
The one we'll be interested in connecting are those with meaning on the
DE-9, even if they are not implemented on the particular serial card in use.

The RTS and DTR are always driven active.

Materials:

To mate with the header, we recommend the following materials:

https://www.adafruit.com/product/1949 Premium Female/Female Wires - 20x12", or
https://www.adafruit.com/product/793  Premium Female/Female Wires - 40x12":
For about $4 ($8), You get enough wire with pre-crimped pins to make four
cable stubs. You will need at least 10 conductors, and probably the 12"
length is best. There are wires without the 1x1 housings, but they are not
available in the 12" length.

https://www.adafruit.com/product/3144 Large Dual Row Wire Houysing Pack:
For about #4, you get quantity five of the desired housings. Unfortunately,
you also get a pile of other housings. Maybe you can find a use for them.

Note: These are not the official Amphenol successors to the original Berg
crimp pins. Those exist, but are quite expensive. Since they are so expensive,
the affordable pins are knock-offs, and are notoriously mutually incompatible.
That is why we're suggesting the Adafruit parts, which are affordable and
known to work together.

For the other end, there is:
https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0B1YVK4DX
For about $11, you get enough materials to make 4 each male and female DE-9
connectors, with shrouds!

The pinout for the DE-9 stubs:

DTE   DTE                                        DCE    DCE
Berg  Signal Name             DE-9M Color  DE-9F Signal Berg
BB    DCD Data Carrier Detect 1     Blue   1     DTR    BB, DD(o)
J     RXD Receive Data        2     Violet 2     TXD    F(o)
F(o)  TXD Transmit Data       3     Grey   3     RXD    J
DD(o) DTR Data Terminal Ready 4     White  4     DSR    Z
VV    GND Signal Ground       5     Black  5     GND    VV
Z     DSR Data Set Ready      6     Green  6     DTR    DD(o)
V(o)  RTS Request to Send     7     Yellow 7     CTS    T
T     CTS Clear to Send       8     Orange 8     RTS    V(o)
X     RI  Ring Indicator      9     Red    9     RI     X

Note that input pins 1 and 6 should be shorted at the DE9F, if building
a female stub.

Note that pins E and M should be shorted at the Berg connector. (This
can be easily done by folding back the brown conductor.)

You can think of the wiring as having three input-output pairs: RXD-TXD,
RTS-CTS, and DSR-DTR, which are swapped when building DCE instead of DTE.
GND, DCD, and RI are not swapped, but DCD is tied to DTR on the DCE end.
(RI is not used, and the inputs float.)

Construction:

Wire colors shown above match each group of 10 wires. Keeping the group of
10 wires together, separate one group to use for the cable stub. Remove the
pins from one end of each wire except the brown, being sure that a female
pin remains on the other end. Strip a small amount of insulation from each
wire where a pin was removed, to go into the solder
cups of the DE-9 connector. You may find it convenient to also tin the
ends, to keep the strands from fraying all over the place.

Locate pin 5 on the DE-9 (male or female). Solder the black wire to pin 5,
then proceed on the top row, connecting each colored wire to the next pin.
When you reach the end of the row, continue below it in the opposite
direction. Don't attach the last (brown) wire.

Install the strain reliefe on the cable and assemble the DE-9 into it's
shroud. Position the strain relief so that it will go inside the shroud
before tightening it. The separated ends of the wires should allow you
to fold/pack the wires into a roundish shape which will fit the hole in
the shroud.

Now, remove the 1x1 housings from the end(s) of each wire. Use a small
jewler's scredriver or a pin to gently lift the retaining flap away from
the pin until you can pull it from the housing.

Finally, install the bare pins into the 44 pin housing. Lay the housing on
a surface with one side against the table and the side where the pins are
inserted facing you. From the left, fill in the top and then the bottom
rows. As you press the pins into place, the retention flap will be pressed
upwards. Press the pins in until the retention flap clicks back down.

Male DE-9 (DTE):
Three empty holes, grey, violet, three more empty holes, orange, yellow, red,
green, blue, white, leaving 8 empy holes. For the lower row; three empty
holes, brown, two more empty holes. Peel back the other end of the brown
wire partway, and install it in the housing. Leave 13 holes, and install
the black wire in the second to last hole, leaving the last hole empty.

Female DE-9 (DCE):
Three empty holes, violet, grey, three more empty holes, yellow, orange, red,
white, blue, green, leaving 8 empty holes. For the lower row; three empty
holes, brown, two more empty holes. Peel back the other end of the brown
wire partway, and install it in the housing. Leave 13 holes, and install
the black wire in the second to last hole, leaving the last hole empty.
