Files making up the server:

boot.c
	This file has the code that deals with booting OS/8.  It sends
	the custom help loader codes and then sends the boot block.

csd.c
	This is the console serial disk server.  It includes all the
	above files.

disk.c
	This file has the code which reads and writes the virtual disk,
	floppy and DECtape images.  Upon load it validates the csd0.img
	file to verify that it is a system image and that it contains
	a valid csd boot loader and SYS handler.  If it doesn't match
	the current version the server knows it patches the boot block.

loopback.c
	This is a test program to verify that the serial port is attached to the
	PDP-8 and working correctly.  A small program is run on the 8 to echo
	received characters back to the server.  This program can be
	found in the source code.

pdp.c
	This file has the code that sends and receives characters from
	the PDP-8.

recvtst.c
	A program to test full speed transmission of characters from the 8
	to the server.  Prints a dot for every 256 characters received.  See
	the notes at the front of the program.

tty.c
	This file has the code that displays characters on the glass Teletype
	and deals with the Unix keyboard.

textfile
	This is the file that gets sent when you press F6.  The F6 key sends
	and character and waits for it to echo.  A carriage return when sent
	expects a return and a linefeed.  Lines longer than 72 characters
	will cause the server to error out when the OS/8 TTY: handler ends
	the line at that point.  You can restart the server and type ^Z to
	terminate the PIP input.  To read a text file in using PIP:

	.R PIP

	*CONNON.PA<TTY:

	At this point you press F6 and textfile will be sent.  You have to
	do something like this because the RDR RUN signal cannot be used
	as hardware flow control with anything except a real teletype.  In
	the case of the example above the file sent will appear on the DSK:
	device as CONNON.PA.  


Virtual disk images provided.
csd0.img
	This is the SYS: image that csd boots from.  It can be referenced
	as either SYS: or CSD0: from OS/8.  It is mostly a copy of the
	RKA0: platter on the RK05 distribution from the PiDP-8 project.
	It was chosen as the source because a lot of care went into its
	generation.

csd1.img
	This is the image mapped to CSD1: and DSK: is pointed at it.
	It is mostly a copy from the RKB0: platter from the PiDP-8
	distribution mentioned above.

rk05.img
	This is a diagnostic pack originally called rk05diag.img.  It is
	accessible as devices RKA: and RKB:
	I don't know how useful it will be to you.

